We'll come back and this lesson let's add some functionality.
So we start the game we want to initiate our pop up and now we need to create a function and let's call
this function pop up.
So basically what's going to happen is that within this function this is where we are going to pop up
that computer.
So we have to do some random stuff here where we need to pick out the random office where this computer
is going to pop up and then we need to add the class to that computer element.
So that way it can pop up and then the user can actually hit it and we can do something with the hit.
So let's set up another global variable and this is going to basically contain the number of offices
that I want it to create.
So I'm going to give it a value of offices and create that sex.
And basically we can use that value within there as well.
So within the pop up what I want to do is I want to get a random value so that we can pick one of the
computers and have it pop up.
So there's a number of ways that we can do this and we've actually seen this before where we can pick
a random value from our array.
We know that we've got an array within computer where we can loop through and we can make our selection.
So let's go ahead and pick our random computer and let's set up a variable for this.
So set up a local variable and we might have to bring it out as well.
So for this one we need to select from a computer and we need to pick out a random item from that computer
array.
So this is where we can use math.
So just as we did before let's build out and pick out a random value from the array.
So I want you to pause the video and go back into what we've done in the previous lessons and pick out
a random value from the array and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So we're use math floor in order to round it down and let's use math random to get a random number so
math random method.
And then we lastly we know we need to multiply it by the length of the array that we're trying to get
the random value out of.
So multiply it by the length.
So we're doing a math floor math random and we're multiplying it by the vailable array.
And so what this is going to do is this is going to return back a value of Rand.
And let's just call this our For now so we'd shorten that have it all within one space.
So just doing a quick check to make sure I got all the brackets in properly and we need to make sure
that we add in pop up.
So that was what we had within our class.
So let's go and test.
So it started up and so there we go.
So we've got a random computer popping up.
And so the next item is that when we hit it we want to remove that class.
So what I want you to do pause the video and go into his computer grab the element that was hit and
then remove the class up.
So pause a video and try that.
And I'll show you the solution coming up.
So we know that we have the ability to select items so we know that when we're grabbing the computer
we can go ahead and we can make our selection.
So let's add that now that we're going to use them at Target.
So the target object.
And for the target object we want to.
So just as we added the pop up let's remove pop up from the class list so as to remove pop up from the
classless So let's refresh this hit start.
And now when we click it it's going to remove the pop up.
So there we go.
So now we know that we can actually select an element and we can hide it and select it.
So the next objective is to add an interval.
So we saw that before where we've got the timeouts and we can set those up and we can have those run.
So ideally within the pop up we want to have this function run.
And then what we want to do is actually we want to hide the computers on the time and then go back and
have another computer show up in another slot.
So let's go ahead and we need to set up a global variable.
So this is just our regular timer and I'm just going to initiate that up there.
And then within here so within the pop up.
So this is where we actually have one of them popping up and I want to have an interval where I want
to be able to hide this particular one so let's do a timer and then we're going to pop it up somewhere
else.
So timer equals set timeout.
And this is a function that we want to run on a specific time delay.
So we're going to set it now as a default.
And what we need to do is we need to create another function in order to hide the computer.
So this one will hide the computer.
And for that we actually need to know what the computer is that we want to hide so let's create that
function and this function is hied computer.
And we actually need to know what computer it is that we're trying to hide.
So noticed over here.
This is the one that we decided to show.
So let's make a quick update to this variable and we'll have we'll call it show.
See or s com.
So that's nice and short there so that will fit right in there and Ask.com.
And for this we need to actually set the value up here as a global variable.
So as calm as a global variable.
And that way.
Now whenever this timer runs we know that after 200 milliseconds we know which computer we actually
need to remove the classroom.
So this one is going to be the same thing but we don't have an event target.
But we do have Eskom in order to pick up and determine which one we want to hide.
So it's go ahead and hide that one after 20 seconds and then after we've hidden that we need to run
pop up again.
So we're going back to the pop up functions are competing this loop.
So let's go ahead and start this game.
And now we should have all of these computers popping up really quickly.
And if you can click them then that means that you're scoring.
So the next part of this course is that we should also randomize the speed.
So no it's rather quick.
So let's set that up as a random speed.
So what I want you to do now pause the video instead of having 200 milliseconds.
Let's do random speed so do it all the way from anywhere from 200 and up to 1000.
So go ahead and add that in and I'll show you how to do that coming up.
So let's set up a variable.
We'll call it our time for random time.
And for this one we need to do some math again.
So let's let's bracket that because at the end of the math I want to at least 200 to it.
So I want to have it at a minimum of 200.
And maybe the other thing too that maybe we can do is we can multiply.
So we can pick a number from 1 to 10 and we can multiply that number by a hundred so let's do math and
floor and then math random and we're going to multiply that by 10.
And then once we've done our math floor we're going to multiply this by 100 and then we're going to
add 200 to it.
So let's try out that interval.
So that way they're not all going to be the same.
And it looks a lot more random how they are popping up and showing up.
So we've got there we've got it there that once stood it longer and again it's starting again.
So once we click it we can initialize that pop up again.
So the next objective is to add a scoring mechanism.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and add an ability to collect and keep the score.
I'll show you how to do that coming up.
So let's set the global variable.
We'll just call that score and initially we'll just set it at zero and we're going to use query selector
and we can't update that inner h t m l.
So every time we hit the computer let's increment the score.
So score plus plus.
So it's going to add to one and all we have to do is put the score here.
So let's let's try that now.
So go back and refresh it.
So every time I hit it we should be updating the score.
So we're getting a value of one and it's actually shouldn't be gameboard it should be score that's updating.
That was an error there.
So let's refresh that and try that again.
So now when I hit them we can see that the score is updating.
So that's exactly what we want to happen.
We want to be able to click and have the score update so I want to add in one more really quick transition.
So we have an option when we add in another class and we do some transitions.
We have what's called transition within CSSA.
So this will make our transition between the two elements a whole lot smoother.
So do all.
And then this is the amount of milliseconds that we're going to do our transition.
So so you this one line of code is going to do.
So it's going to do quite a bit because now it's going to make our computers look like they're actually
popping up from below because they are actually moving up and we're moving from 100 percent of the bottom
of the element all the way up to the top.
So now they look like they're actually moving up and we can see that we're clicking them.
So one of the things now that we need to do is we need to do some bug fixing.
So notice that if I click the computer I can actually click it a few times so I don't want to be able
to click it more than once.
I want that simply to be removed and I want the ability to be able to click on it to be turned off.
So go ahead and add that in and I'll show you how to do that as well coming up.
So the solution to that is a global variable so this variable this will be our global variable and basically
it will be sealed off.
So it will turn off the ability to click on anything things or start out as having it true.
And then whenever we initiate the pop up we're going to also set it as true.
So that way we make sure that the user has the ability to click on the element that's popping up.
And next we need to have a way to set it so whenever we do click on it I want to set the click off.
So let's go down here and we're checking to see if we're actually doing a hit and when we remove the
pop up we need to make sure that we're also checking to see if see off and if sea off is true.
That means that we haven't set it to false yet.
So now the next thing to do is set it to false.
So basically this is going to work as a switch.
And we can update the score within there and we could also keep this one out of there as well and keep
that only if we're actually updating the score that we need to to actually put it into the HMO so that
way that will fix that where we've actually made a hit and where closing that off and the other thing
that was missing that we also need to launch back to pop up so that once we've clicked it and once we're
hiding it then we're ready to retrieve our next one.
So let's save that go back and refresh it and start the game again.
So now we see that even if we click on it and I really do need to slow it down to be able to illustrate
what's happening here.
But we see that
we have to click on it and they're really quick.
So maybe what I'll do is update this to Phife and refresh again.
So this will give me a little bit more time to click them.
So I see that I can't click them more than once.
So as soon as I click them that one time that they go back into the loop and they're going back into
hiding again.
So what I want you to do now is take the script and update it so have instead of six update it to 9.
Try it out and see if that works.
And you're also going to have to update the height of the game board.
So let's do that now and let's see how dynamic Our application is actually going to be.
So if we go to 9 Let's go back and refresh it and start the game.
So now we see that we can go to nine computers and if we had the space we could go to even more.
So now it's up to you to customize this application.
You can customize the styling make it look a whole lot better.
And also you can customize some of the functionality as well.
Update The number of computers and even update what happens when it gets clicked.
So go ahead try to for yourself out in your own customizations and add in your own spin to this.
Hit the computer application.